here we're going to show you how to make
delicious crispy chips so to start with
we've got our peel potatoes which we're
just going to chop into chips you just
want to square it off by taking off the
four sides then you just slice these
into chip size slices as you chop and
then pile them up to make your chips
once you chop your chips you want to
wash them fully excess starch and give
them a good dry it's very important to
dry them so here's some chips which we
have washed we've rinsed in cold water
and we'll just drive with kitchen paper
now the first stage to making chips
because there's two stages to frying it
is to cook the chips without without
coloring them and cooking them all the
way through that's called blanching so
here we've got some oil 130 degrees you
don't want to overcrowd the pan because
what you're going to do if you add too
many trips to the pans you're going to
lower the temperature of the oil our
chips are cooking away they're going to
take seven to eight minutes until cooked
all the way through without any color
stir your chips gently to separate them
and stop and sticking to the bottom of
the pan once they're starting to cook
just leave them to cook ok so our chips
have had seven to eight minutes so you
can see there is much difference I
haven't taken any color now these could
be done a day two days in advance and
just left in the fridge the colder they
get when you cook them the second time
the better really so taking a hot chip
so it's cooked all the way through
lovely and fluffy in the middle but it
hasn't taken on any color
okay so they've rested in the fridge
they've gone cold and what we've done
here is we've heated the oil up to 180
obviously it's a lot hotter than it was
before I need to be even more cautious
now because we're dealing with really
hot oil very very gently because you
don't none of the oil to splash back on
you just lower your chips into the hot
oil and these are going to take three to
four minutes to crisp up become golden
and delicious we wouldn't really want to
put any more in the pan because the more
cold chips you add to the oil what
you're going to do is you're going to
lower the temperature we don't allow the
temperature at all we want to keep the
temperature at 180 move them around ever
so slightly so they don't stick together
or stick to the bottom of the pan and
just as before keeping a lid closed to
you at all time in case of a fire and
your plate ready for serving now they're
golden brown they're perfect and ready
to serve all you need to do drain them
on some kitchen paper and set up
straight away sprinkling of salt some
catch-up some mayonnaise well if you
fancied serve with them and that's how
you cut perfect chips
you